now a man named Lazarus was sick he was
from Bethany the village of Mary and her
sister Martha this Mary whose brother
Lazarus now lay sick was the same one
who poured perfume on the Lord and wiped
his feet with her hair so the sisters
sent word to Jesus Lord the one you love
is sick when he heard this jesus said
the sickness will not end in death no is
for God's glory that God's Son may be
glorified through it Jesus loved Martha
and her sister and Lazarus yet when he
heard that Lazarus was sick he stayed
where he was two more days then he said
to his disciples let us go back to Judea
but rabbi they said a short while ago
the Jews tried to stone you and yet you
are going back there jesus answered are
there not twelve hours of daylight a man
who walks by day will not stumble for he
sees by this world's light that is when
he walks by know that he stumbles for he
has no light after he had said this he
went on to tell them our friend Lazarus
has fallen asleep but I am going there
to wake him up his disciples replied
lord if he sleeps he'll hear better
Jesus had been speaking of his death but
his disciples thought he'd made natural
sleep so then he told them plainly
Lazarus is dead for your sake I'm glad I
was not there so that you may believe
but let us go to him then Thomas called
didymus said to the rest of the
disciples let us also go that we may die
with him on his arrival Jesus found that
Lazarus had already been in his tomb for
four days Bethany was less than two
miles from Jerusalem and many Jews have
come to Martha and Mary to comfort them
in the loss of their brother when Martha
heard that Jesus was coming she went out
to meet him but Mary stayed at home Lord
Martha said to Jesus if you had been
here my brother would not have died but
I know that even though God will give
you
ever you ask Jesus said to her your
brother will ride again Martha answered
I know he will rise again in the
resurrection at the last day jesus said
to her I am the resurrection and the
life he who believes in Me will live
even though he dies and whoever lives
and believes in Me will never die do you
believe this yes Lord she told him I
believe that you are the Christ the Son
of God who was to come into the world
after she had said this she went back
and called her sister Mary aside the
teacher is here she said and I was
asking for you when Mary heard this she
got up quickly and went to him now Jesus
had not entered the village but was
still at the place where Martha had met
him when the Jews who had been with Mary
in the house comforting her notice how
quickly she got up and went out they
followed her supposing she was going to
the tomb to mourn there when Mary
reached the place where Jesus was and
saw him she fell at his feet and said
Lord if you had been here my brother
would not have died when Jesus saw her
weeping and the Jews who had come along
with her also weeping he was deeply
moved in spirit in trouble where have
you laid him he asked come and see Lord
they replied jesus wept then the Jews
said see how he loved him but some of
them said could not he who open the eyes
of the blind man have kept this man from
dying
Jesus once more deeply moved came to the
tomb it was a cave with a stone way
across the entrance take away the stone
he said but Ward said Martha the sister
of the dead man by this time there's a
bad odor for he has been there for days
then jesus said did I not tell you that
if you believe you would see the glory
of God so they took away the stone then
Jesus looked up and said father I thank
you that you have heard me I knew that
you always hear me but I said this for
the benefits of the people standing here
that they may be
that you sent me when he had said this
Jesus called my loud voice Lazarus come
out
the dead man came out his hands and feet
wrapped with strips of linen and the
cloth around his face Jesus said to them
take off the grave clothes and let him
go
you